Hello everyone and welcome to the solutions lecture for the tree methods consulting project again.
Our main task was to figure out which preservative chemical A B C or D was having an effect on the dog
food being spoiled.
So we actually use machine learning models to solve this issue.
Many machine learning models produced some sort of coefficient value for each feature involved indicating
their importance or predictive power relative to the actual label.
Remember back to the documentation lecture for the section of the course we mentioned that these tree
method classifiers have a feature importances attribute available.
So what we can do is we can create a model fit on all the data and then check which feature.
In this case our preservative was causing the spoilage or had the most predictive power to the label
when using feature importances you're going to get something like this back and return a sparse vector
with the first number indicating how many features were used and then the second entry is almost like
a dictionary where you have the actual index number of the feature so index number 0 and then it's actual
important.
So here we can see that the most important feature was by far feature index to giving a value of zero
point nine 6 8 6.
Now the corresponding features column would look something like this you would have a row the features.
Remember we have to input it as a dense vector.
And then these are some particular values so these are actual preservative values with 4 to 12 and 3.
And then finally you have a labeled column spoiled.
So we're going to go over how this actually works.
And an example of it later on in the Jupiter notebook.
Now there are many different ways to solve the actual problem including just using something like Peirce's
mystic's instead of a machine learning model so keep that in mind.
This is definitely not the only way to solve this problem and hopefully his consulting project shows
how we can apply machine learning in a different way from previous examples.
For example in this case we don't really care about train test splits or even deployments.
All we really care about is the actual relationship between a feature and its label.
So again what we really want to fundamentally understand is which feature is important for predicting
the label.
All right.
Let's jump over to Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK so here we have a new notebook and I've created a spark session and the next thing I want to do is
actually read in the data.
I will say data spark read C S V and I'm going to read in dog food CXXVI file.
I will say in first schema and also say header is true.
And as always there's a notebook underneath the tree methods folder that has all the code that is going
to be working through here.
So it's called Tree methods consulting project solution and the basic idea of our approach here is we're
going to perform a random forest classifier model on the data itself.
So if I say data ahead 1 just so I can see what the data looks like.
I have these four rows or four columns I should say these four columns for this particular row of the
preservative percentage amounts A B C and D.
And then I have whether or not it was spoiled.
So what I want to do for this basic approach is build that random for classifier model that is able
to predict whether or not this particular batch of dog food is spoiled based off their preservative
amounts.
Then I'm going to request the feature importance off that model and see if a particular preservative
is really important.
In that case I can figure out which preservative is causing the issue.
So let's continue along in order to do this.
The data needs to be in the right format.
So I need to say from Paice park the M-L that feature a vector assembler.
So I will run that and then the next thing I want to do is check my data columns.
So I have these for preservative columns as well as the spoiled label column.
So then I will create an assembler object and set it equal to vector assembler and my input columns
are going to be a B see indeed.
So the four preservatives and I'm going to create that as an output column just called features.
So there it is.
And then the next step is actually transform the data I'll say.
Output is equal to that assembler object.
I just made.
And then I'm going to transform my actual data source transform my data and then we'll save from Paice
spark MLR.
Cl. I'm going to import my ran the forest classifier and we can also do this if a decision tree classifier.
Either way it's fine.
So I will say for classifier and I'll say RAFC is equal to a random force classifier.
And in the solutions book we use a decision tree classifier.
So either way it's fine.
I'm going to say my label column is equal to spoiled and then I'm going to say my features column is
equal to features.
Next one I'm going to do is check out my output so my output file print the schema.
Notice here I have the spoiled column and the features vector column which means for my final data I
really just need these two pass to the random forest classifier.
So I'll say final data is equal to output dot select and anoints select the features column as well
as the spoiled column.
And you can test this with a list or without a list if you get errors without a list then just pass
in with a list.
But the latest versions of Sparke should have no problems with list or no list.
So you can see here I'm passing in the brackets and it still works OK.
So there's my final data.
If I just show my final data I can hear the features and then that label column.
So now let's train our classifier on that actual data.
So we're going to take her data.
Well let's create a model.
I should say our of model and say r f c whatever happened to call it fit on that final data.
We'll run that and that may take a little bit of time of the pinning on how many trees decided.
I just use the default plente trees.
Now that we have a fitted model what I can do is request the feature importance of this model.
But let me just show you something real quick if we take out the actual final data and then show the
head say head of one.
I can see here that I have the dense vector of the features and each of these is at a certain index
locations is 0 1 2 and then 3.
So if I actually call RAFC model and then request the feature importances remember that from the documentation
example if I run this I can see the actual feature importance of each of these.
So zero correlates to a 1 correlates to be 2 correlates to C and then 3 correlates to D.
And you'll notice one of these particular letters is by far the most important feature and that's chemical
C index too.
So that's by far the most important feature meaning it's actually causing the early spoilage.
So hopefully this was a pretty interesting example of using machine learning models in an alternative
way.
So we don't actually need to do a test train split here.
All we really wanted to know was what feature is really driving the causation of whether or not something
is being spoiled.
Now you could definitely see other models could do this but for actual Just a quick easy attribute.
Definitely random forest or decision tree classifiers make it really easy for you.
So feature importance you can call that off a decision tree as well.
And if you call it off at Decision Tree It would also indicate that this is by far the most important
feature.
OK.
Hopefully that made sense to you if you have any questions since I know this was a bit of a different
approach than what we'd done in the past.
Feel free to ask them at the Q&A forums.
Okay.
Thanks and I'll see at the next section of the course.